Statistics Selection Dialog
 Return to Introduction  Previous page  Next page  
The Statistics Selection dialog is used to define the type of statistical analysis to be made on a computed simulation result. It contains the following data fields:

 

Object Category

Select the category of object to analyze (Subcatchment, Node, Link, or System).

 

Object Name

Enter the ID name of the object to analyze. Instead of typing in an ID name, you can select the object on the Study Area Map or in the Project Browser and then click the Add button to select it into the object name field.

 

Variable Analyzed

Select the variable to be analyzed. The available choices depend on the object category selected (e.g., rainfall, losses, or runoff for subcatchments; depth, inflow, or flooding for nodes; depth, flow, velocity, or capacity for links; water quality for all categories).

 

Event Time Period

Select the length of the time period that defines an event. The choices are daily, monthly, or event-dependent. In the latter case, the event period depends on the number of consecutive reporting periods where simulation results are above the threshold values defined below.

 

Statistic

Choose an event statistic to be analyzed. The available choices depend on the choice of variable to be analyzed and include such quantities as mean value, peak value, event total, event duration, and inter-event time (i.e., the time interval between the midpoints of successive events). For water quality variables the choices include mean concentration, peak concentration, mean loading, peak loading, and event total load.

 

Event Thresholds

These define minimum values that must be met for an event to occur:

· The Analysis Variable threshold specifies the minimum value of the variable being analyzed that must be exceeded for a time period to be included in an event. 

· The Event Volume threshold specifies a minimum flow volume (or rainfall volume) that must be exceeded for a result to be counted as part of an event. Enter 0 if no volume threshold applies. 

· Separation Time sets the minimum number of hours that must occur between the end of one event and the start of the next event. Events with fewer hours are combined together. This value applies only to event-dependent time periods (not to daily or monthly event periods). 

If a particular type of threshold does not apply, then leave the field blank.
